Notes workshop Kari Frank 
2021-12-08 (part 1)
2021-12-10 (part 2)

part 1: people, platforms, and processes:
=========================================

PEOPLE
------

Not about the science part: online resources for that, not area of expertise.
Focussed on Northwestern process, but should be similar in other places.
PDF available later for reference, hyperlinks etc.
part 2: proposal package, what actually goes in

OSR = SR (name changed: Office of Sponsored Research -> Sponsored Research 
Office) 
trying to protect NU research community. If a rule/agreement is broken, can
mean more audits and documentation for everyone. 
URICA (University Research Institute and Center Administration)
Frank Karrin(?) makes actual budget based on PI info, talks to SR for the PI. 
Also assistance of sollicitation requirements, what detailed requirements lists
actually mean.
possibly: (Co-I not a CIERA postdoc, for example)
Investigator Home Departments/Schools. Our home department is CIERA.
Office of Foundation Relations: when proposing to private foundations.
CIERA:
Kari Frank: help translate SR to us, practical CIERA side, e.g., offices for
proposed hires.
Lisa Raymond: 'current and pending' (part 2)  documents for CIERA researchers
Peter not involved here
External:
Other institues counterparts to the NU offices
Sponsor program officers: questions about what's allowed (which expenses), etc.
does project align with goals, etc. Decisions on requirements and instructions.
Don't want to pester them too much, or seem incompetent, in case later issues 
(e.g., extensions) crop up. 

investigators:
PI: 2 roles actually, can be split
NASA lets you officially split. If not officially allowed, can still list 
'science PI' on CV if you aren't allowed to officially be the PI.
Admin PI: accountable person in project admin. 'PI' in CIERA admin parlance.
Science PI: lead science team (budget, science description), leads writing,
works with CIERA and URICA staff 
Co-I, Co-PI: help develop proposal, work with their own research admins
Senior Personnel: other named people, may not be very involved or get funding,
usually very specific role (e.g., teach student a kind of software)
key personnel: anyone on the proposal

!! Every solicitation has its own little quirks, check the requirements and
defined roles.

NU (and many other places): postdocs are not allowed to be admin PIs. 
mainly due to admin and legal responsibilities, grants often last longer then
appointments, and lack of experience managing grants
How to get experience: try to be science PI, ask to stay in the loop in the 
process or do the main admin stuff with admin PI cc'ed
on a proposal-by-proposal basis, exceptions are possible. Does happen.
postdoc request -> CIERA approval -> SR approval
important professional experience and brings in money, but brings in risk 
(cover unallowable costs, for example, bigger compliance risks, extra admin
effort)
for postdocs: accountability is there, do need to manage appropriately, and
does take extra time to get through SR. (denial 1.5 weeks before deadline 
would mess things up) But: explicit PI experience and full credit.
grant to pay your own salary: don't need to be admin PI for that, can find
faculty connected to your work. For timeline beyond current appointment: need
to be careful in phrasing, cannot say duration is dependent on getting the 
grant explicitly. (Something like expected to extend based on performance.)
Science PI, with project continuing beyond appointment: would need some admin
stuff if you're moving. Change Co-I or move money to where you're going. 
Coordinate with offices at NU and grant people. Not an issue at the proposal
stage for science PIs though.

postdoc as science PI: 
more likely to be approved if you don't have a faculty advisor (e.g., CIERA 
fellows), request on time (>= 4 weeks before submission deadline),
administratively simple
admin complications:
large budget (e.g., $100.000, vs. e.g., $15.000)
many different expenses
long duration
external orgs. or people
many Co-Is (difficult science management)
Not always worth it, but if it is, let Kari know. Pretty high succes rate 
though, in part due to initial filtering.

ELECTRONIC PLATFORMS:
---------------------
InfoEd: where Frank uploads proposal documents
lots of e-mails for approval, Frank manages it
NU database for proposal records.
Must request access before submitting the proposal, not by default in database
as an NU PI.

eDisclosure: Conflict of Interest, also needed as Co-I
annual requirement, or before any submission if you've just started.
Rare to have to say yes to anything in astro. Can ask if not sure.

Sponsor portals:
NASA - NSPIRES
NSF - research.gov or Fastlane
STSci - STGMS (HST, JWST, Hubble fellowships)
Chandra - CPS
private foundations - e-mail
! set affiliations as NU
relevant NU ID numbers: https://osr.northwestern.edu/useful-information 
check the system out well before the deadline.
sometimes SR submits for you, using your account, working with e.g., Frank,
asking for NSPIRES log-in is normal

SUBMISSION PROCESS:
-------------------
timeline example:
science starts >= 5 weeks before then and continues to deadline

initiation:
invitation to submit ('sollicitation'): 
- check eligibility (you, NU, program matches)
- feasibility (people you need, timeline)
decide on admin PI:
- have faculty on board, at least as Co-I (even for observing proposals,
  which are mostly just science and a budget outline. Easy to change 
  Co-I to PI, not to add someone.) Need someone to agree to be a mentor,
  officially.
- contact Kari for request
- proposal intake form: per field info -- check CIERA guide
if not everything nailed down, just indicate in comments. This doesn't lock in
the proposal, just to get a sense what we're dealign with.
3+ weeks for basic
4+ weeks if collaborating institutions
6+ weeks for large-scale/complex stuff

develop proposal package: >= 5 weeks before to week before
work closely with Frank, budget and stuff, extra look at sollicitation
needs a lot of reviewing: don't delay. Especially if applying as PI ->
need done weeks in advance

from 3 weeks before deadline: admin processes
drafts for everything in place, esp. budget
InfoEd record created, SP# received
PI eligibility request: after CIERA pre-approval, need CV, appointment letter,
  etc.
pre-route: draft pre-approved by admin PI, admin PI home dept., CIERA
SR admin review: 5+ business days before deadline. Thorough review of 
  near-final versions, often some minor comments (phrasing), final versions
  at least 2 days before deadline. Some iteration may be needed.
  final step: put in final science justification.
submission: SR or you with all documents from SR

SR will try for last-minute issues, but they are busy and letting them know is
advance is helpful.





